---
title: Stand up a BOSH Director with `bbl up`
labels:
- bbl
type: story-feature
weight: 4
---

Stand up a BOSH Director with `bbl up`
### What?
As previously discussed, **[bbl](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/bosh-bootloader)** is a command line utility for standing up a BOSH Director (the VM and persistent disk) on an IAAS. In the past, you would have used Terraform (or on AWS, a CloudFormation template) to create the networks and VMs and [bosh create-env](https://bosh.io/docs/init-google.html) to set up your Director. Under the hood that's what `bbl` uses too.

### How?
Make sure you're in the directory that you created in the last step, with the `service-account.key.json` file generated by `gcloud`.

Run `bbl up --gcp-zone us-east1-b --gcp-region us-east1 --gcp-service-account-key service-account.key.json --iaas gcp --gcp-project-id PROJECT_ID`

...and...*<<drumroll, please>>*...it might fail. Sad panda. But if it does, the error is straightforward, so follow its instructions to fix the problem.

**Pro-tip:** if you're using iTerm, hold down the command-⌘ key and click on the link to open it directly from the prompt.

### Expected Results
If your `bbl up` succeeds, it will have printed the list of steps it has taken to spin up your brand-spanking new BOSH Director and generated a `bbl-state.json`in the current working directory. This file is very important as it contains credentials and other metadata related to your BOSH director and infrastructure.

**Financially important:** Please do not expose your GCP credentials by pushing `bbl-state.json` to Github. You'd be surprised how quickly bitcoin mining VMs pop up. This costs the company beaucoup moolah.

### Resources
[Docs: Using bosh create-env](https://bosh.io/docs/cli-v2.html#create-env)